In this video we'll see a different way of accessing style values.
So not to set a value but to retrieve what the current value is for color or background color or display
position with all these different properties we might want to access on an element.
We couldn't really do using these style property as we saw for example we take any of these allies we
select them I'll just do document that query selector ally just to get the first one it has that class
of special if I do dot style dot color it's empty and we saw why that happens in the last video it happens
because the style property only contains the inline styles it does not contain any calculated styles
any styles from a style sheet anything from a class which is what's going on here we have a class of
special that is turning this ally teal.
So if I want to get that calculated or computed value we have a method called Get computed style and
we pass in an element that we've selected so I'm gonna have to select this ally and save it to a variable
or pass this in to get computed style.
I'll call this ally and then get computed style of ally and I'll save this to a variable and this will
return to me an object called a CSF style declaration.
And if I open it up what you'll see is a ton of stuff.
Keep scrolling down here we have key value pairs for all CSI as properties.
Notice there are actual values here.
Most of them are just the default values in your browser.
So the default background color is down here which is where are you.
Background.
Background color RGA 0 0 0 0 which is just nothing.
The default background image is none the default background positions 0 0.
Then here's one that we applied border one pixel solid teal which is coming from the style sheet.
Here's the class special border one pixel solid teal so you can see that this object that we got from
get computed styles if we scroll all the way back up is actually going to contain all of the properties
in the SS for a given element all the possible properties and all of their current values.
Now when I say current values they could change.
So if we change something the easy way using the style object which we could do ally dot style dot color
now equals pink okay.
Now let's look at that style object that we got when it clear my console.
It is not happy with the style objects that I had printed out.
So we have our styles here that we got from get computed style.
If we do styles dot color we now have a different color.
This is the color I just set.
Pink.
If I change the ally dot style dot color is now equal to red and we do styles that color again.
Now we have the RG B for Red 255 red 0 green 0 blue.
So this object now that we got from get computed styles.
I'm calling it styles will contain all of the current updated styles and computed means that sometimes
these styles may come from a style sheet.
Sometimes they may come from javascript but we can also have things like a hover style on my H1.
If I add in a style based off of hover and I give a color of purple and a font size of 80 pixels instead
of 60 pixels.
If I refresh my page I hover.
It grows.
It's not actually turning purple.
Oh I don't know why it did purple twice but it doesn't matter because in my index I had a inline style
declaration and that's a perfect example of why inline style declarations suck.
They override everything so you can write a bunch of styles and they won't work so it should be purple
now and instead of making it purple again when we hover let's make it orange all right.
So now I have her.
It goes orange and it gets bigger.
So what I could do to illustrate get computed styles and the fact that it works on any sort of styles
that would be applied.
Let's figure out the computed color and font size when I hover.
Now this is it's kind of tricky because in order to run that code from my console I have to be typing
over here although I guess I can move my my cursor over here as I do it.
So let's try it.
Let's select the H1 console H1 equals document that query selector H1 and then I'll run get computed
styles.
Let's make a variable called comp styles equals and then get computed style of that H1 that we just
selected.
OK so let's start by looking at comp styles dot color.
That's the purple color we have.
And if we look at font size remember we have to use camel case it is 60 pixels.
So already this is much better than using the inline style property because we're able to actually get
a value for color and font size versus doing H1 dot style dot color gives us an empty string H1 dot
style dot font size also gives us an empty string.
So now if I type my line let's do comp styles dot color.
They're not going to hit entering when a hover first and then hit enter.
Take a look.
I hovered and we got a new computed style value and now it goes back to what it was before.
Same thing with font size.
It starts at Nope not that version.
This one starts at 60 pixels.
And if I run it again.
But first hover and hit enter.
Now it's 80 pixels.
So it's kind of cool computer computed styles is a great way to figure out what's actually going on
on your page.
You can have a whole bunch of styles being applied to one element.
But to know what is actually winning what is actually showing up in the DOM and taking effect.
You can use get computed style.
All right.
So that's pretty much it.
Get computed style returns a massive object containing every property that has been calculated since
the USS.